10.4.0
------

Security
========

ImageShow.WindowsViewer.show_file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If an attacker has control over the ``path`` passed to
``ImageShow.WindowsViewer.show_file()``, they may be able to
execute arbitrary shell commands.

To prevent this, a :py:exc:`FileNotFoundError` will be raised if the ``path``
does not exist as a file. To provide a consistent experience, the error has
been added to all :py:class:`~PIL.ImageShow` viewers.

Deprecations
============

BGR;15, BGR 16 and BGR;24
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The experimental BGR;15, BGR;16 and BGR;24 modes have been deprecated.

Non-image modes in ImageCms
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The use in :py:mod:`.ImageCms` of input modes and output modes that are not Pillow
image modes has been deprecated. Defaulting to "L" or "1" if the mode cannot be mapped
is also deprecated.

16-Bit RGB/BGR Rawmodes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following rawmodes have been deprecated and replaced with better-named rawmodes.
Additionally, the 5 and 6 bit conversions are slightly more accurate, so there will be
some differences in the output. The difference is only ever by 1, so you are unlikely
to notice the difference visually.

============  ==============
Deprecated    Use instead
============  ==============
``RGB;15``    ``XBGR;1555``
``RGB;16``    ``BGR;565``
``BGR;5``     ``XRGB;1555``
``BGR;15``    ``XRGB;1555``
``BGR;16``    ``RGB;565``
``RGB;4B``    ``XBGR;4``
``RGBA;4B``   ``ABGR;4``
``RGBA;15``   ``ABGR;1555``
``BGRA;15``   ``ARGB;1555``
``BGRA;15Z``  ``ARGB;1555Z``
============  ==============

Support for LibTIFF earlier than 4
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Support for LibTIFF earlier than version 4 has been deprecated.
Upgrade to a newer version of LibTIFF instead.

ImageDraw.getdraw hints parameter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``hints`` parameter in :py:meth:`~PIL.ImageDraw.getdraw()` has been deprecated.

API Additions
=============

ImageDraw.circle
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Added :py:meth:`~PIL.ImageDraw.ImageDraw.circle`. It provides the same functionality as
:py:meth:`~PIL.ImageDraw.ImageDraw.ellipse`, but instead of taking a bounding box, it
takes a center point and radius.

Other Changes
=============

Python 3.13 beta
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To help others prepare for Python 3.13, wheels have been built against the 3.13 beta as
a preview. This is not official support for Python 3.13, but simply an opportunity for
users to test how Pillow works with the beta and report any problems.
