11.2.1
------

.. warning::

   The release of Pillow *11.2.0* was halted prematurely, due to hitting PyPI's
   project size limit and concern over the size of Pillow wheels containing libavif.
   The PyPI limit has now been increased and Pillow *11.2.1* has been released
   instead, without libavif included in the wheels.
   To avoid confusion, the incomplete 11.2.0 release has been removed from PyPI.

Security
========

Undefined shift when loading compressed DDS images
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When loading some compressed DDS formats, an integer was bitshifted by 24 places to
generate the 32 bits of the lookup table. This was undefined behaviour, and has been
present since Pillow 3.4.0.

Deprecations
============

Image.Image.get_child_images()
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. deprecated:: 11.2.1

``Image.Image.get_child_images()`` has been deprecated. and will be removed in Pillow
13 (2026-10-15). It will be moved to ``ImageFile.ImageFile.get_child_images()``. The
method uses an image's file pointer, and so child images could only be retrieved from
an :py:class:`PIL.ImageFile.ImageFile` instance.

API changes
===========

``append_images`` no longer requires ``save_all``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Previously, ``save_all`` was required to in order to use ``append_images``. Now,
``save_all`` will default to ``True`` if ``append_images`` is not empty and the format
supports saving multiple frames::

    im.save("out.gif", append_images=ims)

API additions
=============

``"justify"`` multiline text alignment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In addition to ``"left"``, ``"center"`` and ``"right"``, multiline text can also be
aligned using ``"justify"`` in :py:mod:`~PIL.ImageDraw`::

    from PIL import Image, ImageDraw
    im = Image.new("RGB", (50, 25))
    draw = ImageDraw.Draw(im)
    draw.multiline_text((0, 0), "Multiline\ntext 1", align="justify")
    draw.multiline_textbbox((0, 0), "Multiline\ntext 2", align="justify")

Specify window in ImageGrab on Windows
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When using :py:meth:`~PIL.ImageGrab.grab`, a specific window can be selected using the
HWND::

    from PIL import ImageGrab
    ImageGrab.grab(window=hwnd)

Check for MozJPEG
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can check if Pillow has been built against the MozJPEG version of the
libjpeg library, and what version of MozJPEG is being used::

    from PIL import features
    features.check_feature("mozjpeg")  # True or False
    features.version_feature("mozjpeg")  # "4.1.1" for example, or None

Saving compressed DDS images
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Compressed DDS images can now be saved using a ``pixel_format`` argument. DXT1, DXT3,
DXT5, BC2, BC3 and BC5 are supported::

    im.save("out.dds", pixel_format="DXT1")

Other changes
=============

Arrow support
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`Arrow <https://arrow.apache.org/>`__ is an in-memory data exchange format that is the
spiritual successor to the NumPy array interface. It provides for zero-copy access to
columnar data, which in our case is ``Image`` data.

To create an image with zero-copy shared memory from an object exporting the
arrow_c_array interface protocol::

    from PIL import Image
    import pyarrow as pa
    arr = pa.array([0]*(5*5*4), type=pa.uint8())
    im = Image.fromarrow(arr, 'RGBA', (5, 5))

Pillow images can also be converted to Arrow objects::

    from PIL import Image
    import pyarrow as pa
    im = Image.open('hopper.jpg')
    arr = pa.array(im)

Reading and writing AVIF images
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Pillow can now read and write AVIF images when built from source with libavif 1.0.0
or later.
