12.0.0
------

Security
========

TODO
^^^^

TODO

:cve:`YYYY-XXXXX`: TODO
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO

Backwards incompatible changes
==============================

ImageFile.raise_oserror
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``ImageFile.raise_oserror()`` has been removed. The function was undocumented and was
only useful for translating error codes returned by a codec's ``decode()`` method,
which ImageFile already did automatically.

IptcImageFile helper functions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The functions ``IptcImageFile.dump`` and ``IptcImageFile.i``, and the constant
``IptcImageFile.PAD`` have been removed. These were undocumented helper functions
intended for internal use, so there is no replacement. They can each be replaced by a
single line of code using builtin functions in Python.

ImageCms constants and versions() function
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A number of constants and a function in :py:mod:`.ImageCms` have been removed. This
includes a table of flags based on LittleCMS version 1 which has been replaced with a
new class :py:class:`.ImageCms.Flags` based on LittleCMS 2 flags.

============================================  ====================================================
Deprecated                                    Use instead
============================================  ====================================================
``ImageCms.DESCRIPTION``                      No replacement
``ImageCms.VERSION``                          ``PIL.__version__``
``ImageCms.FLAGS["MATRIXINPUT"]``             :py:attr:`.ImageCms.Flags.CLUT_POST_LINEARIZATION`
``ImageCms.FLAGS["MATRIXOUTPUT"]``            :py:attr:`.ImageCms.Flags.FORCE_CLUT`
``ImageCms.FLAGS["MATRIXONLY"]``              No replacement
``ImageCms.FLAGS["NOWHITEONWHITEFIXUP"]``     :py:attr:`.ImageCms.Flags.NOWHITEONWHITEFIXUP`
``ImageCms.FLAGS["NOPRELINEARIZATION"]``      :py:attr:`.ImageCms.Flags.CLUT_PRE_LINEARIZATION`
``ImageCms.FLAGS["GUESSDEVICECLASS"]``        :py:attr:`.ImageCms.Flags.GUESSDEVICECLASS`
``ImageCms.FLAGS["NOTCACHE"]``                :py:attr:`.ImageCms.Flags.NOCACHE`
``ImageCms.FLAGS["NOTPRECALC"]``              :py:attr:`.ImageCms.Flags.NOOPTIMIZE`
``ImageCms.FLAGS["NULLTRANSFORM"]``           :py:attr:`.ImageCms.Flags.NULLTRANSFORM`
``ImageCms.FLAGS["HIGHRESPRECALC"]``          :py:attr:`.ImageCms.Flags.HIGHRESPRECALC`
``ImageCms.FLAGS["LOWRESPRECALC"]``           :py:attr:`.ImageCms.Flags.LOWRESPRECALC`
``ImageCms.FLAGS["GAMUTCHECK"]``              :py:attr:`.ImageCms.Flags.GAMUTCHECK`
``ImageCms.FLAGS["WHITEBLACKCOMPENSATION"]``  :py:attr:`.ImageCms.Flags.BLACKPOINTCOMPENSATION`
``ImageCms.FLAGS["BLACKPOINTCOMPENSATION"]``  :py:attr:`.ImageCms.Flags.BLACKPOINTCOMPENSATION`
``ImageCms.FLAGS["SOFTPROOFING"]``            :py:attr:`.ImageCms.Flags.SOFTPROOFING`
``ImageCms.FLAGS["PRESERVEBLACK"]``           :py:attr:`.ImageCms.Flags.NONEGATIVES`
``ImageCms.FLAGS["NODEFAULTRESOURCEDEF"]``    :py:attr:`.ImageCms.Flags.NODEFAULTRESOURCEDEF`
``ImageCms.FLAGS["GRIDPOINTS"]``              :py:attr:`.ImageCms.Flags.GRIDPOINTS()`
``ImageCms.versions()``                       :py:func:`PIL.features.version_module` with
                                              ``feature="littlecms2"``, :py:data:`sys.version` or
                                              :py:data:`sys.version_info`, and ``PIL.__version__``
============================================  ====================================================

ImageMath eval()
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``ImageMath.eval()`` has been removed. Use :py:meth:`~PIL.ImageMath.lambda_eval` or
:py:meth:`~PIL.ImageMath.unsafe_eval` instead.

BGR;15, BGR 16 and BGR;24
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The experimental BGR;15, BGR;16 and BGR;24 modes have been removed.

Non-image modes in ImageCms
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The use in :py:mod:`.ImageCms` of input modes and output modes that are not Pillow
image modes has been removed. Defaulting to "L" or "1" if the mode cannot be mapped has
also been removed.

Support for LibTIFF earlier than 4
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Support for LibTIFF earlier than version 4 has been removed.
Upgrade to a newer version of LibTIFF instead.

ImageDraw.getdraw hints parameter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``hints`` parameter in :py:meth:`~PIL.ImageDraw.getdraw()` has been removed.

FreeType 2.9.0
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Support for FreeType 2.9.0 has been removed. FreeType 2.9.1 is the minimum version
supported.

We recommend upgrading to at least FreeType `2.10.4`_, which fixed a severe
vulnerability introduced in FreeType 2.6 (:cve:`2020-15999`).

.. _2.10.4: https://sourceforge.net/projects/freetype/files/freetype2/2.10.4/

Deprecations
============

TODO
^^^^

TODO

API changes
===========

TODO
^^^^

TODO

API additions
=============

TODO
^^^^

TODO

Other changes
=============

TODO
^^^^

TODO
