12.2.0
------

Security
========

:cve:`2026-40192`: Prevent FITS decompression bomb
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When decompressing GZIP data from a FITS image, Pillow did not limit the amount of data
being read, meaning that it was vulnerable to GZIP decompression bombs. This was
introduced in Pillow 10.3.0.

The data being read is now limited to only the necessary amount.

Fix OOB write with invalid tile extents
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Pillow 12.1.1 addressed :cve:`2026-25990` by improving checks for tile extents to
prevent an OOB write from specially crafted PSD images in Pillow >= 10.3.0. However,
these checks did not consider integer overflow. This has been corrected.

Prevent PDF parsing trailer infinite loop
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When parsing a PDF, if a trailer refers to itself, or a more complex cyclic loop
exists, then an infinite loop occurs. Pillow now keeps a record of which trailers it
has already processed. PdfParser was added in Pillow 4.2.0.

Integer overflow when processing fonts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If a font advances for each glyph by an exceeding large amount, when Pillow keeps track
of the current position, it may lead to an integer overflow. This has been fixed.

Heap buffer overflow with nested list coordinates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Passing nested lists as coordinates to APIs that accept coordinates such as
``ImagePath.Path``, :py:meth:`~PIL.ImageDraw.ImageDraw.polygon`
and :py:meth:`~PIL.ImageDraw.ImageDraw.line` could cause a heap buffer overflow,
as nested lists were recursively unpacked beyond the allocated buffer.
Coordinate lists are now validated to contain exactly two numeric coordinates.
This was introduced in Pillow 11.2.1.

API changes
===========

Error when encoding an empty image
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Attempting to encode an image with zero width or height would previously raise
a :py:exc:`SystemError`. That has now been changed to a :py:exc:`ValueError`.

This does not add any new errors. SGI, ICNS and ICO formats are still able to
save (0, 0) images.

API additions
=============

FontFile.to_imagefont()
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

:py:class:`~PIL.FontFile.FontFile` instances can now be directly converted to
:py:class:`~PIL.ImageFont.ImageFont` instances::

    >>> from PIL import PcfFontFile
    >>> with open("Tests/fonts/10x20-ISO8859-1.pcf", "rb") as fp:
    ...   pcffont = PcfFontFile.PcfFontFile(fp)
    ...   pcffont.to_imagefont()
    ...
    <PIL.ImageFont.ImageFont object at 0x10457bb80>

ImageText.Text.wrap
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

:py:meth:`.ImageText.Text.wrap` has been added, to wrap text to fit within a given
width::

    from PIL import ImageText
    text = ImageText.Text("Hello World!")
    text.wrap(50)
    print(text.text)  # "Hello\nWorld!"

or within a certain width and height, returning a new :py:class:`.ImageText.Text`
instance if the text does not fit::

    text = ImageText.Text("Text does not fit within height")
    print(text.wrap(50, 25).text == " within height")
    print(text.text)  # "Text does\nnot fit"

or scaling, optionally with a font size limit::

    text.wrap(50, 15, "shrink")
    text.wrap(50, 15, ("shrink", 7))
    text.wrap(58, 10, "grow")
    text.wrap(50, 50, ("grow", 12))

EXIF tag FrameRate
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The EXIF tag ``FrameRate`` has been added.

Other changes
=============

Support reading JPEG2000 images with CMYK palettes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

JPEG2000 images with CMYK palettes can now be read. This is the first integration of
CMYK palettes into Pillow.

Lazy plugin loading
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When opening or saving an image, Pillow now lazily loads only the required plugin
based on the file extension, instead of importing all plugins upfront. This makes
``open`` 2.3-15.6x faster and ``save`` 2.2-9x faster for common formats.

Thread safety for free-threaded Python
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Critical sections are now used to protect FreeType font objects, improving thread
safety when using fonts in the free-threaded build of Python.
