13.0.0
------

Security
========

TODO
^^^^

TODO

:cve:`YYYY-XXXXX`: TODO
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TODO

Backwards incompatible changes
==============================

Python 3.10
^^^^^^^^^^^

Pillow has dropped support for Python 3.10,
which reached end-of-life in October 2026.

Saving I mode images as PNG
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In order to fit the 32 bits of I mode images into PNG, when PNG images can only contain
at most 16 bits for a channel, Pillow has been clipping the values. Rather than quietly
changing the data, this is now removed. Instead, the image can be converted to another
mode before saving::

    from PIL import Image
    im = Image.new("I", (1, 1))
    im.convert("I;16").save("out.png")

Image.fromarray mode parameter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Using the ``mode`` parameter in :py:meth:`~PIL.Image.fromarray()` was deprecated in
Pillow 11.3.0. In Pillow 12.0.0, this was partially reverted, and now the only
functionality removed is when the mode changes data types. Since pixel values do not
contain information about palettes or color spaces, the parameter can still be used to
place grayscale L mode data within a P mode image, or read RGB data as YCbCr for
example. If omitted, the mode will be automatically determined from the object's shape
and type.

Image.Image.get_child_images()
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``Image.Image.get_child_images()`` has been moved to
``ImageFile.ImageFile.get_child_images()``. The method uses an image's file pointer,
and so child images could only be retrieved from an :py:class:`PIL.ImageFile.ImageFile`
instance.

Image._show
~~~~~~~~~~~

``Image._show`` has been removed. Use :py:meth:`~PIL.ImageShow.show` instead.

ImageCms.ImageCmsProfile.product_name and .product_info
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``ImageCms.ImageCmsProfile.product_name`` and the corresponding
``.product_info`` attributes have been removed. They were set to ``None`` since Pillow
2.3.0.

Deprecations
============

Image.putpixel 'value' lists
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Passing lists to the ``value`` parameter of :py:meth:`~PIL.Image.Image.putpixel` have
been deprecated. Use tuples instead.

API changes
===========

TODO
^^^^

TODO

API additions
=============

TODO
^^^^

TODO

Other changes
=============

Python 3.15
^^^^^^^^^^^

Pillow 12.3.0 had wheels built against Python 3.15 beta, available as a preview
to help projects prepare for 3.15, and to ensure Pillow could be used
immediately at the release of 3.15.0 final (2026-10-01, :pep:`790`).

Pillow 13.0.0 now officially supports Python 3.15.
