
3.0.0
=====

Saving Multipage Images
-----------------------

There is now support for saving multipage images in the `GIF` and
`PDF` formats. To enable this functionality, pass in `save_all=True`
as a keyword argument to the save::

    im.save('test.pdf', save_all=True)

Tiff ImageFileDirectory Rewrite
-------------------------------

The Tiff ImageFileDirectory metadata code has been rewritten. Where
previously it returned a somewhat arbitrary set of values and tuples,
it now returns bare values where appropriate and tuples when the
metadata item is a sequence or collection.

The original metadata is still available in the TiffImage.tags, the
new values are available in the TiffImage.tags_v2 member. The old
structures will be deprecated at some point in the future.  When
saving Tiff metadata, new code should use the
TiffImagePlugin.ImageFileDirectory_v2 class.

Deprecated Methods
------------------

Several methods that have been marked as deprecated for many releases
have been removed in this release::

    Image.tostring()
    Image.fromstring()
    Image.offset()
    ImageDraw.setink()
    ImageDraw.setfill()
    The ImageFileIO module
    The ImageFont.FreeTypeFont and ImageFont.truetype `file` keyword arg
    The ImagePalette private _make functions
    ImageWin.fromstring()
    ImageWin.tostring()

LibJpeg and Zlib are Required by Default
----------------------------------------

The external dependencies on libjpeg and zlib are now required by default.
If the headers or libraries are not found, then installation will abort
with an error. This behaviour can be disabled with the ``--disable-libjpeg``
and ``--disable-zlib`` flags.

