
3.1.1
=====

CVE-2016-0740 -- Buffer overflow in TiffDecode.c
------------------------------------------------

Pillow 3.1.0 and earlier when linked against libtiff >= 4.0.0 on x64
may overflow a buffer when reading a specially crafted tiff file.

Specifically, libtiff >= 4.0.0 changed the return type of
``TIFFScanlineSize`` from ``int32`` to machine dependent
``int32|64``. If the scanline is sized so that it overflows an
``int32``, it may be interpreted as a negative number, which will then
pass the size check in ``TiffDecode.c`` line 236. To do this, the
logical scanline size has to be > 2gb, and for the test file, the
allocated buffer size is 64k against a roughly 4gb scan line size. Any
image data over 64k is written over the heap, causing a segfault.

This issue was found by security researcher FourOne.


CVE-2016-0775 -- Buffer overflow in FliDecode.c
-----------------------------------------------

In all versions of Pillow, dating back at least to the last PIL 1.1.7
release, FliDecode.c has a buffer overflow error.

Around line 192::

  case 16:
      /* COPY chunk */
      for (y = 0; y < state->ysize; y++) {
          UINT8* buf = (UINT8*) im->image[y];
          memcpy(buf+x, data, state->xsize);
          data += state->xsize;
      }
      break;


The memcpy has error where ``x`` is added to the target buffer
address. ``X`` is used in several internal temporary variable roles,
but can take a value up to the width of the image.  ``Im->image[y]``
is a set of row pointers to segments of memory that are the size of
the row.  At the max ``y``, this will write the contents of the line
off the end of the memory buffer, causing a segfault.

This issue was found by Alyssa Besseling at Atlassian

CVE-2016-2533 -- Buffer overflow in PcdDecode.c
----------------------------------------------

In all versions of Pillow, dating back at least to the last PIL 1.1.7
release, ``PcdDecode.c`` has a buffer overflow error.

The ``state.buffer`` for ``PcdDecode.c`` is allocated based on a 3
bytes per pixel sizing, where ``PcdDecode.c`` wrote into the buffer
assuming 4 bytes per pixel. This writes 768 bytes beyond the end of
the buffer into other Python object storage. In some cases, this
causes a segfault, in others an internal Python malloc error.

Integer overflow in Resample.c
------------------------------

If a large value was passed into the new size for an image, it is
possible to overflow an int32 value passed into malloc.
 
  kk = malloc(xsize * kmax * sizeof(float));
  ...
  xbounds = malloc(xsize * 2 * sizeof(int));

``xsize`` is trusted user input. These multiplications can overflow,
leading the malloc'd buffer to be undersized. These allocations are
followed by a loop that writes out of bounds. This can lead to
corruption on the heap of the Python process with attacker controlled
float data.

This issue was found by Ned Williamson.
