6.2.0
-----

API Additions
=============

Text stroking
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``stroke_width`` and ``stroke_fill`` arguments have been added to text drawing
operations. They allow text to be outlined, setting the width of the stroke and
and the color respectively. If not provided, ``stroke_fill`` will default to
the ``fill`` parameter.

.. code-block:: python

    from PIL import Image, ImageDraw, ImageFont

    font = ImageFont.truetype("Tests/fonts/FreeMono.ttf", 40)
    font.getsize_multiline("A", stroke_width=2)
    font.getsize("ABC\nAaaa", stroke_width=2)

    im = Image.new("RGB", (100, 100))
    draw = ImageDraw.Draw(im)
    draw.textsize("A", font, stroke_width=2)
    draw.multiline_textsize("ABC\nAaaa", font, stroke_width=2)
    draw.text((10, 10), "A", "#f00", font, stroke_width=2, stroke_fill="#0f0")
    draw.multiline_text((10, 10), "A\nB", "#f00", font,
                        stroke_width=2, stroke_fill="#0f0")

API Changes
===========

Image.getexif
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To allow for lazy loading of Exif data, ``Image.getexif()`` now returns a
shared instance of ``Image.Exif``.

Deprecations
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Python 2.7
~~~~~~~~~~

Python 2.7 reaches end-of-life on 2020-01-01.

Pillow 7.0.0 will be released on 2020-01-01 and will drop support for Python
2.7, making Pillow 6.2.x the last release series to support Python 2.

Other Changes
=============

Removed bdist_wininst .exe installers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.exe installers fell out of favour with PEP 527, and will be deprecated in
Python 3.8. Pillow will no longer be distributing them. Wheels should be used
instead.

Flags for libwebp in wheels
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When building libwebp for inclusion in wheels, Pillow now adds the -O3 and
-DNDEBUG CFLAGS. These flags would be used by default if building libwebp
without debugging, and using them fixes a significant decrease in speed when
a wheel-installed copy of Pillow performs libwebp operations.
