8.0.0
-----

Backwards Incompatible Changes
==============================

Python 3.5
^^^^^^^^^^

Pillow has dropped support for Python 3.5, which reached end-of-life on 2020-09-13.

PyPy 7.1.x
^^^^^^^^^^

Pillow has dropped support for PyPy3 7.1.1.
PyPy3 7.2.0, released on 2019-10-14, is now the minimum compatible version.

im.offset
^^^^^^^^^

``im.offset()`` has been removed, call :py:func:`.ImageChops.offset()` instead.

Image.fromstring, im.fromstring and im.tostring
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* ``Image.fromstring()`` has been removed, call :py:func:`.Image.frombytes()` instead.
* ``im.fromstring()`` has been removed, call :py:meth:`~PIL.Image.Image.frombytes()` instead.
* ``im.tostring()`` has been removed, call :py:meth:`~PIL.Image.Image.tobytes()` instead.

ImageCms.CmsProfile attributes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Some attributes in :py:class:`PIL.ImageCms.CmsProfile` have been removed:

========================  ===================================================
Removed                   Use instead
========================  ===================================================
``color_space``           Padded :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.xcolor_space`
``pcs``                   Padded :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.connection_space`
``product_copyright``     Unicode :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.copyright`
``product_desc``          Unicode :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.profile_description`
``product_description``   Unicode :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.profile_description`
``product_manufacturer``  Unicode :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.manufacturer`
``product_model``         Unicode :py:attr:`~.CmsProfile.model`
========================  ===================================================

API Changes
===========

ImageDraw.text: stroke_width
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fixed issue where passing ``stroke_width`` with a non-zero value
to :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.text` would cause the text to be offset by that amount.

ImageDraw.text: anchor
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``anchor`` parameter of :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.text` has been implemented.

Use this parameter to change the position of text relative to the
specified ``xy`` point. See :ref:`text-anchors` for details.

Add MIME type to PsdImagePlugin
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

"image/vnd.adobe.photoshop" is now registered as the
:py:class:`.PsdImagePlugin.PsdImageFile` MIME type.

API Additions
=============

Image.open: add formats parameter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Added a new ``formats`` parameter to :py:func:`.Image.open`:

* A list or tuple of formats to attempt to load the file in.
  This can be used to restrict the set of formats checked.
  Pass ``None`` to try all supported formats. You can print the set of
  available formats by running ``python -m PIL`` or using
  the :py:func:`PIL.features.pilinfo` function.

ImageOps.autocontrast: add mask parameter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

:py:func:`.ImageOps.autocontrast` can now take a ``mask`` parameter:

* Histogram used in contrast operation is computed using pixels within the mask.
  If no mask is given the entire image is used for histogram computation.

ImageOps.autocontrast cutoffs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Previously, the ``cutoff`` parameter of :py:func:`.ImageOps.autocontrast` could only
be a single number, used as the percent to cut off from the histogram on the low and
high ends.

Now, it can also be a tuple ``(low, high)``.

ImageDraw.regular_polygon
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A new method :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.regular_polygon`, draws a regular polygon of ``n_sides``, inscribed in a ``bounding_circle``.

For example ``draw.regular_polygon(((100, 100), 50), 5)``
draws a pentagon centered at the point ``(100, 100)`` with a polygon radius of ``50``.

ImageDraw.text: embedded_color
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The methods :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.text` and :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.multiline_text`
now support fonts with embedded color data.

To render text with embedded color data, use the parameter ``embedded_color=True``.

Support for CBDT fonts requires FreeType 2.5 compiled with libpng.
Support for SBIX fonts requires FreeType 2.5.1 compiled with libpng.
Support for COLR fonts requires FreeType 2.10.
SVG fonts are not yet supported.

ImageDraw.textlength
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Two new methods :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.textlength` and :py:meth:`.FreeTypeFont.getlength`
were added, returning the exact advance length of text with 1/64 pixel precision.

These can be used for word-wrapping or rendering text in parts.

ImageDraw.textbbox
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Three new methods :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.textbbox`, :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.multiline_textbbox`,
and :py:meth:`.FreeTypeFont.getbbox` return the bounding box of rendered text.

These functions accept an ``anchor`` parameter, see :ref:`text-anchors` for details.

Other Changes
=============

Improved ellipse-drawing algorithm
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ellipse-drawing algorithm has been changed from drawing a 360-sided polygon to one
which resembles Bresenham's algorithm for circles. It should be faster and produce
smoother curves, especially for smaller ellipses.

ImageDraw.text and ImageDraw.multiline_text
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fixed multiple issues in methods :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.text` and :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.multiline_text`
sometimes causing unexpected text alignment issues.

The ``align`` parameter of :py:meth:`.ImageDraw.multiline_text` now gives better results in some cases.

TrueType fonts with embedded bitmaps are now supported.

Added writing of subIFDs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When saving EXIF data, Pillow is now able to write subIFDs, such as the GPS IFD. This
should happen automatically when saving an image using the EXIF data that it was opened
with, such as in :py:meth:`~PIL.ImageOps.exif_transpose`.

Previously, the code of the first tag of the subIFD was incorrectly written as the
offset.

Error for large BMP files
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Previously, if a BMP file was too large, an ``OSError`` would be raised. Now,
``DecompressionBombError`` is used instead, as Pillow already uses for other formats.

Dark theme for docs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The https://pillow.readthedocs.io documentation will use a dark theme if the the user has requested the system use one. Uses the ``prefers-color-scheme`` CSS media query.



