8.1.0
-----

Deprecations
============

FreeType 2.7
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Support for FreeType 2.7 is deprecated and will be removed in Pillow 9.0.0 (2022-01-02),
when FreeType 2.8 will be the minimum supported.

We recommend upgrading to at least FreeType `2.10.4`_, which fixed a severe
vulnerability introduced in FreeType 2.6 (:cve:`CVE-2020-15999`).

.. _2.10.4: https://sourceforge.net/projects/freetype/files/freetype2/2.10.4/

Makefile
^^^^^^^^

The ``install-venv`` target has been deprecated.

API Additions
=============

Append images to ICO
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When saving an ICO image, the file may contain versions of the image at different
sizes. By default, Pillow will scale down the main image to create these copies.

With this release, a list of images can be provided to the ``append_images`` parameter
when saving, to replace the scaled down versions. This is the same functionality that
already exists for the ICNS format.

Security
========

This release includes security fixes.

* An out-of-bounds read when saving TIFFs with custom metadata through LibTIFF
* An out-of-bounds read when saving a GIF of 1px width
* :cve:`CVE-2020-35653` Buffer read overrun in PCX decoding

The PCX image decoder used the reported image stride to calculate the row buffer,
rather than calculating it from the image size. This issue dates back to the PIL fork.
Thanks to Google's `OSS-Fuzz`_ project for finding this.

* :cve:`CVE-2020-35654` Fix TIFF out-of-bounds write error

Out-of-bounds write in ``TiffDecode.c`` when reading corrupt YCbCr files in some
LibTIFF versions (4.1.0/Ubuntu 20.04, but not 4.0.9/Ubuntu 18.04). In some cases
LibTIFF's interpretation of the file is different when reading in RGBA mode, leading to
an out-of-bounds write in ``TiffDecode.c``. This potentially affects Pillow versions
from 6.0.0 to 8.0.1, depending on the version of LibTIFF. This was reported through
`Tidelift`_.

* :cve:`CVE-2020-35655` Fix for SGI Decode buffer overrun

4 byte read overflow in ``SgiRleDecode.c``, where the code was not correctly checking the
offsets and length tables. Independently reported through `Tidelift`_ and Google's
`OSS-Fuzz`_. This vulnerability covers Pillow versions 4.3.0->8.0.1.

.. _Tidelift: https://tidelift.com/subscription/pkg/pypi-pillow?utm_source=pillow&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=docs
.. _OSS-Fuzz: https://github.com/google/oss-fuzz

Dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^

OpenJPEG in the macOS and Linux wheels has been updated from 2.3.1 to 2.4.0, including
security fixes.

LibTIFF in the macOS and Linux wheels has been updated from 4.1.0 to 4.2.0, including
security fixes discovered by fuzzers.

Other Changes
=============

Makefile
^^^^^^^^

The ``co`` target has been removed.

PyPy wheels
^^^^^^^^^^^

Wheels have been added for PyPy 3.7.

PySide6
^^^^^^^

Support has been added for PySide6. If it is installed, it will be used instead of
PyQt5 or PySide2, since it is based on a newer Qt.
