8.2.0
-----

Deprecations
============

Categories
^^^^^^^^^^

``im.category`` is deprecated and will be removed in Pillow 10.0.0 (2023-01-02),
along with the related ``Image.NORMAL``, ``Image.SEQUENCE`` and
``Image.CONTAINER`` attributes.

To determine if an image has multiple frames or not,
``getattr(im, "is_animated", False)`` can be used instead.

Tk/Tcl 8.4
^^^^^^^^^^

Support for Tk/Tcl 8.4 is deprecated and will be removed in Pillow 10.0.0 (2023-01-02),
when Tk/Tcl 8.5 will be the minimum supported.

API Changes
===========

Image.alpha_composite: dest
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When calling :py:meth:`~PIL.Image.Image.alpha_composite`, the ``dest`` argument now
accepts negative co-ordinates, like the upper left corner of the ``box`` argument of
:py:meth:`~PIL.Image.Image.paste` can be negative. Naturally, this has effect of
cropping the overlaid image.

Image.getexif: EXIF and GPS IFD
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Previously, :py:meth:`~PIL.Image.Image.getexif` flattened the EXIF IFD into the rest of
the data, losing information. This information is now kept separate, moved under
``im.getexif().get_ifd(0x8769)``.

Direct access to the GPS IFD dictionary was possible through ``im.getexif()[0x8825]``.
This is now consistent with other IFDs, and must be accessed through
``im.getexif().get_ifd(0x8825)``.

These changes only affect :py:meth:`~PIL.Image.Image.getexif`, introduced in Pillow
6.0. The older ``_getexif()`` methods are unaffected.

Image._MODEINFO
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This internal dictionary had been deprecated by a comment since PIL, and is now
removed. Instead, ``Image.getmodebase()``, ``Image.getmodetype()``,
``Image.getmodebandnames()``, ``Image.getmodebands()`` or ``ImageMode.getmode()``
can be used.

API Additions
=============

getxmp() for JPEG images
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A new method has been added to return
`XMP data <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extensible_Metadata_Platform>`_ for JPEG
images. It reads the XML data into a dictionary of names and values.

For example::

    >>> from PIL import Image
    >>> with Image.open("Tests/images/xmp_test.jpg") as im:
    >>>     print(im.getxmp())
    {'RDF': {}, 'Description': {'Version': '10.4', 'ProcessVersion': '10.0', ...}, ...}

ImageDraw.rounded_rectangle
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Added :py:meth:`~PIL.ImageDraw.ImageDraw.rounded_rectangle`. It works the same as
:py:meth:`~PIL.ImageDraw.ImageDraw.rectangle`, except with an additional ``radius``
argument. ``radius`` is limited to half of the width or the height, so that users can
create a circle, but not any other ellipse.

.. code-block:: python

    from PIL import Image, ImageDraw
    im = Image.new("RGB", (200, 200))
    draw = ImageDraw.Draw(im)
    draw.rounded_rectangle(xy=(10, 20, 190, 180), radius=30, fill="red")

ImageOps.autocontrast: preserve_tone
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The default behaviour of :py:meth:`~PIL.ImageOps.autocontrast` is to normalize
separate histograms for each color channel, changing the tone of the image. The new
``preserve_tone`` argument keeps the tone unchanged by using one luminance histogram
for all channels.

ImageShow.GmDisplayViewer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If GraphicsMagick is present, this new :py:class:`PIL.ImageShow.Viewer` subclass will
be registered. It uses GraphicsMagick_, an ImageMagick_ fork, to display images.

The GraphicsMagick based viewer has a lower priority than its ImageMagick
counterpart.  Thus, if both ImageMagick and GraphicsMagick are installed,
``im.show()`` and :py:func:`.ImageShow.show()` prefer the viewer based on
ImageMagick, i.e the behaviour stays the same for Pillow users having
ImageMagick installed.

ImageShow.IPythonViewer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If IPython is present, this new :py:class:`PIL.ImageShow.Viewer` subclass will be
registered. It displays images on all IPython frontends. This will be helpful
to users of Google Colab, allowing ``im.show()`` to display images.

It is lower in priority than the other default :py:class:`PIL.ImageShow.Viewer`
instances, so it will only be used by ``im.show()`` or :py:func:`.ImageShow.show()`
if none of the other viewers are available. This means that the behaviour of
:py:class:`PIL.ImageShow` will stay the same for most Pillow users.

Saving TIFF with ICC profile
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

As is already possible for JPEG, PNG and WebP, the ICC profile for TIFF files can now
be specified through a keyword argument::

    im.save("out.tif", icc_profile=...)


Security
========

These were all found with `OSS-Fuzz`_.

:cve:`CVE-2021-25287`, :cve:`CVE-2021-25288`: Fix OOB read in Jpeg2KDecode
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* For J2k images with multiple bands, it's legal to have different widths for each band,
  e.g. 1 byte for ``L``, 4 bytes for ``A``.
* This dates to Pillow 2.4.0.

:cve:`CVE-2021-28675`: Fix DOS in PsdImagePlugin
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* :py:class:`.PsdImagePlugin.PsdImageFile` did not sanity check the number of input
  layers with regard to the size of the data block, this could lead to a
  denial-of-service on :py:meth:`~PIL.Image.open` prior to
  :py:meth:`~PIL.Image.Image.load`.
* This dates to the PIL fork.

:cve:`CVE-2021-28676`: Fix FLI DOS
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* ``FliDecode.c`` did not properly check that the block advance was non-zero,
  potentially leading to an infinite loop on load.
* This dates to the PIL fork.

:cve:`CVE-2021-28677`: Fix EPS DOS on _open
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* The readline used in EPS has to deal with any combination of ``\r`` and ``\n`` as line
  endings. It accidentally used a quadratic method of accumulating lines while looking
  for a line ending.
* A malicious EPS file could use this to perform a denial-of-service of Pillow in the
  open phase, before an image was accepted for opening.
* This dates to the PIL fork.

:cve:`CVE-2021-28678`: Fix BLP DOS
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* ``BlpImagePlugin`` did not properly check that reads after jumping to file offsets
  returned data. This could lead to a denial-of-service where the decoder could be run a
  large number of times on empty data.
* This dates to Pillow 5.1.0.

Fix memory DOS in ImageFont
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* A corrupt or specially crafted TTF font could have font metrics that lead to
  unreasonably large sizes when rendering text in font. ``ImageFont.py`` did not check
  the image size before allocating memory for it.
* This dates to the PIL fork.

Other Changes
=============

GIF writer uses LZW encoding
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

GIF files are now written using LZW encoding, which will generate smaller files,
typically about 70% of the size generated by the older encoder.

The pixel data is encoded using the format specified in the `CompuServe GIF standard
<https://www.w3.org/Graphics/GIF/spec-gif89a.txt>`_.

The older encoder used a variant of run-length encoding that was compatible but less
efficient.

GraphicsMagick
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The test suite can now be run on systems which have GraphicsMagick_ but not
ImageMagick_ installed.  If both are installed, the tests prefer ImageMagick.

Libraqm and FriBiDi linking
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The way the libraqm dependency for complex text scripts is linked has been changed:

Source builds will now link against the system version of libraqm at build time
rather than at runtime by default.

Binary wheels now include a statically linked modified version of libraqm that
links against FriBiDi at runtime instead. This change is intended to address
issues with the previous implementation on some platforms. These are created
by building Pillow with the new build flags ``--vendor-raqm --vendor-fribidi``.

Windows users will now need to install ``fribidi.dll`` (or ``fribidi-0.dll``) only,
``libraqm.dll`` is no longer used.

See :doc:`installation documentation<../installation>` for more information.

PyQt6
^^^^^

Support has been added for PyQt6. If it is installed, it will be used instead of
PySide6, PyQt5 or PySide2.

.. _GraphicsMagick: http://www.graphicsmagick.org/
.. _ImageMagick: https://imagemagick.org/
.. _OSS-Fuzz: https://github.com/google/oss-fuzz
