8.4.0
-----

API Changes
===========

Deprecations
^^^^^^^^^^^^

ImagePalette size parameter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``size`` parameter will be removed in Pillow 10.0.0 (2023-01-02).

Before Pillow 8.3.0, ``ImagePalette`` required palette data of particular lengths by
default, and the size parameter could be used to override that. Pillow 8.3.0 removed
the default required length, also removing the need for the size parameter.

API Additions
=============

Added "transparency" argument for loading EPS images
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This new argument switches the Ghostscript device from "ppmraw" to "pngalpha",
generating an RGBA image with a transparent background instead of an RGB image with a
white background.

.. code-block:: python

    with Image.open("sample.eps") as im:
        im.load(transparency=True)

Added WalImageFile class
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

:py:func:`PIL.WalImageFile.open()` previously returned a generic
:py:class:`PIL.Image.Image` instance. It now returns a dedicated
:py:class:`PIL.WalImageFile.WalImageFile` class.

Security
========

TODO
^^^^

TODO

Other Changes
=============

Speed improvement when rotating square images
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Starting with Pillow 3.3.0, the speed of rotating images by 90 or 270 degrees was
improved by quickly returning :py:meth:`~PIL.Image.Image.transpose` instead, if the
rotate operation allowed for expansion and did not specify a center or post-rotate
translation.

Since the ``expand`` flag makes no difference for square images though, Pillow now
uses this faster method for square images without the ``expand`` flag as well.
